three two one boom hello jack
what's up nice to meet you man nice to
meet you finally yeah keep this sucker
like a fist from your face good
first of all dude you started a company
when you started Twitter when you guys
first started did you have any ID
there's no way you could have added any
idea what it would be now no but one of
the things I always try to emphasize
with people and their people like ah
Twitter's crazy like how could it not be
crazy there's never been anything like
it before
like imagine trying to predict the kind
of the president of United States uses
threat Twitter to threaten other
countries yeah I mean that comment did
you think it was gonna be when you first
did it well you know we were building
this thing for ourselves and that's how
that's how everything starts we wanted
to use it we wanted to we wanted to you
know stay connected with each other when
we group text like a group text we loved
our phones we loved technology we we
actually started this as a hack week
project out of a failed company called
oh do is podcasting I remember that yeah
super early on we were we're really
creative folks but we weren't that
passionate about we're podcasting was
going in our particular I mean we just
got a lot of competition early on iTunes
just released their podcast directory
but we knew we wanted to work together
we knew we loved this idea of one button
publishing we loved this idea of
collaboration we loved this idea of
being anywhere and being able to share
what was happening that was that was the
idea I mean that was it and that's what
we wanted it to be and I think the most
beautiful and also sometimes
uncomfortable aspect of Twitter is it we
really learned what it wanted to be
and the people helped create it like
everything that we hold sacred now the
at symbol
hashtag the retweet those were not
invented by me or the company those were
things that we discovered things that we
discovered people using and we just
observed it and we we noticed what they
were trying to do they're trying to talk
with one another they were trying to
collect tweets around topics with the
hashtag has anybody figured out when the
first use of hashtag something was
created yeah it was um it was actually
our lead designer Robert Anderson who
leads our design in the cash app hired
him Foursquare later on but he was the
first one he was actually communicating
with his brother and he put at Buzz his
brother's name is Buzz and it just kind
of spread it wasn't in mass but people
were doing it but what was most
interesting is not what they were doing
but what they wanted to do with it they
wanted to address each other and that's
that changed the company completely that
changed the service because I went from
just broadcasting what's happening to
conversation and to being being able to
address anyone publicly out in the open
which came with it a lot of power and
also a lot of issues as well yeah the
the use of hashtags like looking up hash
tag you know fry fest or hash tag you
know anytime there's something weird
that's in the news that's that's such a
unique way to find things but to go on
Twitter and to utilize that it's a mean
it's it's interesting that you're that
this guy just did it just contact his
brother
well that would that was the estimable
the hash tag was this guy Christmas you
know and he was trying to he was trying
to tag he was trying to tag around
topics and he was tweeting about and
again that spread all we did was made it
easier we made it more accessible we we
enabled everyone to do it with the @
symbol we made a page that collected all
mentions of your name with a hashtag we
allowed people to search immediately so
you could tap on the keyword and you
would see everyone talking about that or
tweeting about that specific hashtag so
these things were just emergent
behaviors that we didn't predict and
they became the lifeblood of the service
what's fascinating to me about something
like Twitter or even something like
YouTube is that there's not a lot of
other ones like it there's just this one
thing like how does that happen where
this one thing sort of gets adopted by
everybody and takes over and then just
becomes this overwhelmingly massive
platform I mean there's really there's
Vimeo there's a few other video services
but nothing on the scale of YouTube and
that's the same thing with Twitter
there's nothing on the scale of
distributing information in a quick
short 280 character form like that we um
III don't think we could plan for it I
don't think we could necessarily build
for that I someone said recently too we
just you know gathered a bunch of our
leadership last week in Palm Springs for
an off-site and someone said recently
that Twitter was discovered and I think
what's behind all that is that it it it
hits something foundational it hits
something essential and my co-founder
biz likes to say that Twitter can never
be uninvented it's here it changed
everything that the use of it has been
revolutionary and it's just a simple
idea of you know if you could text with
the entire world if you could actually
reach anyone in the world or anyone
could see what you're thinking which i
think is also the beautiful thing about
about text and the and the medium you
can actually get it someone's raw
thoughts and anyone in the world can see
that instantaneously it becomes this
subconscious it becomes just like global
consciousness and it gets to some really
deep places in society and and some of
those places are pretty uncomfortable
well it also gets to some really deep
places psychologically there's there's
some there's a weirdness to it right
there's a weirdness to sending texts
particularly at anonymously you know and
there's so many accounts that are just
an egg you know there's so many accounts
where they're clearly
designed if you like sometimes someone
will tweet something mean to me and I'm
like hmm won't know what this person is
up to so I go to their site and it's
just them tweeting mean shit at people
all day long like it's probably some
angry person at work and they're like
I'm just gonna find people and fuck with
them all day yeah
when did you realize or when did you
realize I'm sure you're aware of it when
did you realize that this was almost out
of your control in terms of like the
scale of it there were that there wasn't
there wasn't one moment there wasn't one
moment that it just felt completely
resonant it's just it's it's unfolded
into the next thing in the next use case
and it just keeps surprising us with how
people are are using it we you know it
definitely um recently I think we've
identified some of the areas of the
service that we need to pay a lot more
attention to twitter is unique in that
it has two main spaces one which is your
time line and those are the people that
you follow and you know when you follow
someone they've earned that audience and
then it has this other world where
anyone can insert themselves into the
conversation they can actually mention
you and you'll see that without asking
for it
you can insert yourself into hashtags
and to search and these are areas that
people have taken advantage of and these
are the areas that people have gamed our
systems to in some cases artificially
amplify but also just to spread a lot of
things that weren't possible with the
velocity that they're not possible
before now when this is all happening
what's the conversation like at Twitter
when you're recognizing that this is
happening that people are kind of gaming
the system like what it how do you guys
how do you mitigate it what's the
discussion well early on it was um it
was pretty surface level like how do we
change some of the app dynamics but more
recently
we're trying to go a lot deeper and
asking ourselves the question when
people open Twitter what are we
incentivizing what are we telling them
to do when they open up this app we may
not explicitly be doing that but there's
something that we're saying without
being as clear about it so what does the
like button incentivize what does the
retweet incentivize what does the number
of followers and making that number big
and bold incentivize so I'm not sure
what we shouldn't I'm not sure if we
should incentivize anything but we need
to understand what that is and I think
you know right now we we do incentivize
a lot of echo chambers because we don't
make it easy for people to follow
interests and topics it's only accounts
we incentivize a lot of outrage and how
hot takes because of the some of the
dynamics in the service not allowing a
lot of nuance and conversation earlier
on pseudonyms this you know this ability
to not use your real name incentivizes
some positive things like it allows for
whistleblowers and journalists to might
fear for their career or even worse
their life and under certain regimes but
also allows for people like the example
you mentioned of just random fire and
you know spread of abuse and harassment
throughout so those are the things that
we're looking at and how do we how do we
enable more of the conversation to
evolve how do we increase the
credibility or reputation of accounts
how do we identify credible voices
within a particular domain not just
through this very coarse grain blue
verified badge but if you're an expert
in a particular topic how do we
recognize that in real time and show
that so that we can provide more context
to who you're talking to and if you want
to engage in a deeper conversation or
just ignore you or block them
but what is the conversation like while
you're at work like when you realizing
that all this stuff is happening and
you're realizing that now I mean it
particularly because the president uses
it so often it's such a I mean it's his
preferred platform for communicating
with the people I mean even more so than
addresses it's really it's very strange
what's the conversation like in the
office when you're trying to figure out
hey what's our responsibility here how
are we supposed to handle this or how do
we I mean you're you're in some ways
what Twitter is doing is it it's really
kind of its flavoring the public
narrative its flavoring the way we
communicate with each other in this in
our culture worldwide yeah I mean the
the conversation has definitely evolved
I think in the past we just got super
reactive we were reacting to all the
negative things that we're seeing and
that led to a lot of short-term thinking
more recently we've just looked much
deeper we we don't react to the to the
present day where we look for some of
the patterns and you know we we have a
we have a company that is not just
serving the people of this particular
country the United States this is global
we have global leaders all around the
use all around the world using us in in
different ways some you know more with
the higher velocity some recognize more
of the power some put out statements
some lead conversations but it's looking
at all those dynamics and not trying to
hyper focus on any one particular one
because if we do we're only building it
for one portion of the population or
only one perceived present-day crisis
well what I'm trying to get at was like
okay like when things come up like say
if you find out that there's people from
Isis they're using Twitter and they're
using Twitter and posting things like
what is the conversation like how do
what do we do about this do we let leave
this up do we recognize this as free
speech do we only take it down if
they're calling for murder or
hate speech like what how do you handle
that well it evolves I mean because like
we first saw Isis were in the world to
Isis and we needed to change our policy
to deal with it what was the what was
the initial reaction to it so once you
realized that people from Isis we're
making Twitter accounts and they were
trying to recruit people and doing all
these things what was the what was the
thought process oh it's a question like
what are we going to do about this we
haven't experienced this before we need
to nobody asked me you don't sleep
pioneers no yeah but there there are
people who have experienced in different
forms in different mediums so we reach
out to our government partners for
instance or law enforcement partners we
reach out to our pure companies to ask
if they're seeing the same things that
we're seeing we have a bunch of civil
societies that we talk to to get their
take on as well and we try to balance
that across you know very spectrums
whether it be you know more
organizations that are more focused on
preventing online harassment all the way
to the ACLU and the FF who are
protecting the First Amendment online so
we won't we try to get as many
perspectives as possible take that and
then make some informed decisions but
also realize that we're probably gonna
make some mistakes along the way and all
we can do to correct some of that is
just be open about where we are that's
probably where we failed to most in the
past is we just haven't been open about
our thinking process what led to
particular decisions how our Terms of
Service evolved in terms of service as
an area in our industry is just it's a
mess no one reads them you know you sign
up for these services and you quickly
hit accept yeah and we expect people to
read these rules of the road but they
haven't read them and have you ever read
them I have read read Facebook's
I have a read Facebook's yeah not on it
I'm not on Facebook flat a Facebook
right just kidding what about Instagram
you've read theirs I was uh I was in the
first ten users
of Instagram really kevin was intern
Kevin Systrom was an Internet odyo and I
was one of the first investors of
Instagram and loved the service I don't
think I've ever read their Terms of
Service mmm yeah that's what I'm saying
even you even me but I read ours and you
wanted things I noticed right away is
you know you read our you read our Terms
of Service and one of first things that
we put at the top of the page was
copyright and intellectual property
protections mmm you go down you scroll
down you see everything about violent
threats and abuse and harassment and
safety and it's not that the company
intended for that to be the order it
just we just added things going on but
even a read of that puts forth our point
of view like we're actually putting
copyright infringement above the safety
the physical safety of someone so we
need to relook at some of these things
and how they've evolved and how they
reacted and but is it above just because
it's listed a second I mean is there
essentially all in the same one sheet
there only one sheet when you when you
bring it up when you discuss it first is
that really critical they're all they're
all part of the Terms of Service yeah
but I think that ordering matters like
what what do we consider to be most
important right and we have to consider
physical safety to the to be the one
thing that we protect the most and so
icicle threats physical threats Don
saying daxing anything that impinges on
someone's physical safety this is an
area where I don't think technology and
services like ours have focused on
enough we haven't focused on the f-off
platform ramifications of what happens
online so what do you do like like
here's a good for instance this
situation with this young kid who had
the maggot hat on and the Native
American gentleman who was in front of
him banging the drum and then people are
calling for this kid's name they want
his name they want his address including
Kathy Griffin like how do you how do you
handle something like that
well because that's essentially request
for daxing yeah and and that's that is a
new vector that we haven't seen in mass
and this these are these are the cases
that bring up entirely new things so we
have to study it we have to see how we
reacted what happened with a network but
this goes back to the incentives like we
are incentivizing this very quick
reaction and it's taking away from some
some more of the like considered work
that we need to do to really diagnose
what's happening in the moment and it
was it's such an interesting case study
to see how that evolved over just 48
hours yes and that's one of the most
fascinating new cycles or stories in the
new cycle in quite a while because it's
nuanced there's there's many different
levels to it yeah and a lot of like
really neat jerk reactions totally and
but we helped that well it's just that's
how some of the dynamics of the service
work but is thanks for the service or is
it the way people choose to use the
service like if you are a thoughtful
person you wouldn't just like for
instance the original image that was
distributed came from an account that's
now banned right and so it was it was
discovered that that account was a troll
account what how does that happen and
what what was the the thought process
behind that because the image that they
posted was a legitimate image it really
did happen but wasn't it was a part of
an actual occurring event so what why do
you ban the person or the troll account
that put it up I don't know about this
particular case but it's likely that it
was found there's there's a lot of what
you see on the surface the Twitter and
some of the actions that we take on the
surface but where we spend a lot of our
enforcement is actually what's happening
underneath so in many cases we have
trolls or people like the case that you
mentioned whose sole purpose is just to
harass or abuse or spread particular
information and oftentimes see
these accounts might be connected or
they start one account that gets banned
they start another account but we can
actually see this through a network lens
and we can actually see some of those
behaviors so that might have been one of
the reasons I'm not sure in in in that
particular case but you know what the
how do you know do you know because of
IP addresses do you know because of the
the variety of things so it could be it
could be trying to use the same fund
number same email address IP addresses
device IDs all these things that we can
use to to judge what's happening within
the context so we do have a lot of
occurrences of suspending or temporarily
suspending accounts because of
activities across accounts um and and
that that happens a ton but what what I
mean what I mean in the in that we're
helping this right now is like some of
the incentives like just just imagine
seeing that unfold and when you see
someone with one take it kind of
emboldened something to follow along and
then this mob kind of rules yeah so
there has to be a way for us to
incentivize a lot more you know more
considered and more nuanced
introspection of what's going on yeah
give everybody mushrooms know how are
you gonna get people to be more
considerate I mean what what this is
essentially your engineering social
behavior right yeah provide more context
like it in an example let's take Briggs
it for example okay so if I followed a
bunch of accounts that like like Boris
Johnson who was constantly giving me
information about reasons to leave I
would probably only see that perspective
nigel Faraj yeah and those and those a
lot of folks just will not follow
accounts that have a completely
different perspective or a different
influence a number of people do
hopefully journalists do but most people
won't do that work so this is the only
tool we give people follow an account if
however during that time you followed
the hash tag you follow the hashtag vote
leave 95% of
conversation the tweets you see are all
reasons to leave but there's a small
percentage that shows a different
perspective and that shows a different
different reasoning we don't make it
easy for anyone to do that and that is a
lot or anyone to follow the habit of
perspective follow the hashtag follow a
topic follow an interest and because of
that we help build an echo chamber right
and and something that doesn't really
challenge any perspective and not to say
that we should force that upon people
but we don't even make it easy for
people to do in the first place so the
way you do that today is you go this the
Explorer tab you look you search for a
hashtag or you tap into a hashtag and
you can see all the conversations but
that's that's work and most people just
won't do the work they'll stay in their
timeline they'll see what they need to
see and I can certainly imagine you know
why if I'm just following a bunch of
people who have the exact same take on
this it just continues to embolden
embolden Boldin and they see nothing of
a different perspective on the exact
same at the exact same situation what's
interesting to me is the difference
between Twitter and Instagram
essentially it's not just the
photographs what's weird
that has happened was there's their
shitty people on Instagram as well I
mean there's there's a lot of arguments
and things along those lines but they
don't overwhelm the the initial post
whereas with Twitter on a different
surface yeah its Instagram is a is a
post I mean it's a post it's not really
eliciting conversation it's illicit it's
difficult to follow the conversations I
don't think there's a conversation it's
sometimes there is sometimes sometimes
people are going back and forth about a
particular subject that's discussed in
the initial post but it's not it's not
very clear yeah whereas with with
Twitter it's only converse it's only
conversation but even if there's a
photograph even if somebody posts a
photograph on Twitter and has
conversation under it the photograph
seems to be like of secondary importance
you know it's super super fluid and
super messy - yeah the thing is every on
Instagram
or any any blog you have this this post
this statement and you have comments
underneath
whereas with Twitter everything is on
the same surface right it's all one
surface yeah my friend Kurt Metzger
likes that about Facebook he says
because in Twitter he goes I post
something and then all these fucking
morons post something and he goes you
know Kurt he's very animated he's like
and their shit looks like just like my
shit it's all together I'll piled up he
goes but if I post something on Facebook
he goes I have this whole thing like
this is the original statement and then
underneath it yeah you fucking say
whatever you want but no one's no one's
reading that like they're reading the
original initial post and it's clear
that there's a differentiation between
the initial post than the secondary post
yeah I you know there's room for both
models but I this conversation most
conversations it's it's not you making a
statement and me just reacting to them
like the our conversation of all it's
based on what we say we can interrupt
one another we can you know we can
completely change the subject I can take
control of the conversation and the
people who might find that interesting
follow it and the folks that don't just
stop listening whereas you can't do that
in a post comment model yeah it's also
text is so limited there it's I mean
it's great for just getting out actual
facts but it's also thinking it's just
so close to thinking like there's no
composition right you know and and
that's a that to me is the most
beautiful thing about Twitter but also
something that you know can be
uncomfortable like I I can compose my
life on Instagram I can compose my
thoughts within a Facebook post and they
can look so perfect but the best of
Twitter is just super raw and it's right
it's right to the thinking process and I
just think that's so beautiful because
it gets took it gets to consciousness it
gets to something deeper and I think
that deeper how so how is it different
than a post on Instagram or a post on
Facebook the the speed demands you know
the the the character can
strength the speed kind of just demanded
more conscious present focused thinking
versus like stepping back and imposing a
letter
yeah and composing a letter and thinking
about all the outcomes but oftentimes
people do compose it as a letter and
they break it up into separate 280
character posts yeah what was the
thought processing going from 140 to 280
because I did one thing that I liked
about 140 is that you can't be verbose
yeah you can't just just ramble and you
know like it's great for comics because
it forces us to write jokes like with
economy of words exactly we are we found
a lot of resonance with with journalists
because of headlines we found a lot of
resonance with with comics because of
the rhythm and we found a lot of
resonance with hip-hop as well because
of the bars and just the structure and
the constraint allowed that that flow
the the thinking was we looked at our
you know languages around the world and
and there's some languages like German
140 characters you can't really say much
can't really say much at all right words
are so long there are some languages
like Japanese 140 characters is 140
words and what was interesting about
Japan was Japan is one of our largest
our largest countries we're bigger than
Facebook there were ru not bigger than
Facebook in America know what the fuck I
don't even use Facebook sorry Facebook I
don't either I mean I use it in terms of
if I post something on Instagram it goes
to Facebook yeah but when I go to
Facebook it's it just seems like a lot
ah but this isn't like Twitter to a lot
of arguing but what I will this Twitter
seems to be more fun if that makes any
sense even though it's there's a lot of
chaos when something one of my favorite
things when someone posts something
stupid and then underneath it is a bunch
of gifs you say gifts are gifs
I said gif does anybody know yes it gifs
I say guess yeah its jury's out a bunch
of gifts that are hilarious yeah like
I'm just mocking someone relentlessly
like though that is one of my favorite
things about Twitter when someone like
Donald Trump post something ridiculous
and
I'll go and I'll look at the responses
like back it's a public conversation
yeah as you can see our owner acts but
like it's all the interesting thing
about Twitter's is there's not one
Twitter
it's like you have politics Twitter
which can be super toxic you have sports
Twitter you have NBA Twitter you have
MMA Twitter you have a UFC Twitter you
have kpop Twitter you have black horse
what are you a black Twitter that's
Jamie's you have all these different
Twitter's in you and you have a you have
a completely different experience yes
based on what Twitter you follow me
participate in some of them were are
like super engaging super funny some of
them are you want to walk away from it
yeah I got to a certain point where I
couldn't read replies anymore
I just mmm it's just not is not that
it's that toxic the vast majority of
interactions I have with people are
super positive that may mean absolutely
like more than 99% but it's I didn't I
don't have time and I don't have time to
be constantly responding to people and
it just didn't the sheer numbers well I
think when I got around 3 million ish
followers I'm like I can't do this
anymore it's just it's overwhelming like
I don't have the resources yeah I I'm a
huge believer in serendipity so you you
you look at your replies once and you
might see something that just like
strikes you mm-hmm and that's enough you
don't need to read through all of them
yeah you might but I also believe that
the most important things to come back
up what I used to do a lot would I would
go through my mentions and when people
would essentially used it as almost a
news aggregator go through my mentions
that people would post cool stories and
then I would retweet those and so
because people knew that I would retweet
them they would send me a lot of cool
stuff so because of that because of
reciprocating I got a lot of really cool
stuff sent my way yeah you're pushing
your pushing we're out to expand the
network yeah and I reinforced it I just
I wanted to thank people for posting
cool stuff and they love the fact they
would get a retweet and so they would
send me like interesting science stories
or you know very bizarre nature stories
and I'd just be retweeting them all the
time code um but then after a while I'm
like mmm this is a lot of time
so a lot of time so now essentially what
I do is I just post something and I just
kind of like way what but that I mean
that that speaks to what we want to
incentivize more we want more people
contributing things back to the network
back to the back to the public
conversation and I I know it doesn't
feel like this today for most people but
my ideal is someone walks away from
Twitter learning something and they're
actually learning something entirely new
I think it might be a new perspective
that happens a lot it probably happens
more often than we anyone we follow
exactly it's all depending on the on the
Twitter you follow and like the you know
that health Twitter is amazing you know
I learned some like I followed Rhonda
Patrick and around asana and wim HOF and
ice baths and Ben Greenfield and you
just follow them and you just get all
this new information about alternative
views of how to stay healthy how to live
longer and I I can't find that anywhere
else yeah in one place like that and
then it's not just them broadcasting
when they retweet something or when they
tweet something there's a whole
conversation about it so you know some
people say this is you know this has not
been my experience or this is not this
is not true for me or actually have you
seen this connected thing and I I just
go down this rabbit hole and I I learned
so much but that's not the experience
for everyone no well yeah it's not the
experience for everyone and it's not
really I don't think it's what everyone
wants either sometimes people just like
to go on there and talk shit I mean
there's someone that's trapped in a
cubicle right now strapped and they just
want to go in there and get in arguments
about gun control or you know whether or
not Nancy Pelosi is the devil I mean
this is this is what you know it serves
a purpose for them yeah the thing that
gets strange though is who's to decide
you know there's thing this is there's
this concept there's a discussion I
should say where some people believe
that things like Twitter or Facebook or
any forum where you're having a public
discussion should be considered almost
like a public utility like anyone has
access to the electric power even if you
are
you know even if you're a racist you
still can get electricity and some
people think that you should have that
same ability with something like Twitter
or the same ability with something like
Instagram obviously this is we're in
uncharted territory and you or you are
in uncharted territory
totally no one has been there before so
who makes the distinctions when you see
someone that it's saying something that
you might think is offensive to some
folks but not offensive to the person
who's saying it maybe the person who's
saying it feels like they need to
express themselves and this is important
to say and how do you decide whether or
not this is a valid discussion or if
this is air quotes hate speech which is
a you know there's some things that are
hate speech and there's sometimes people
use the term hate speech and it's just a
cheap way to shut down a conversation
yeah we so the simple answer is we look
at conduct we don't we don't look at the
speech of so if we look at conduct we
look at how the tool is being used and
you're you're right in that like I think
when people see Twitter they see and
they expect it to be a public square
they can go into that public square they
can say whatever they want they can get
on the pedestal and people might gather
around them and listen what they have to
say some of them might find it offensive
and they leave the difference is there's
there's also this concept of this
megaphone and the megaphone can be
highly targeted would Twitter as well
right so it's not it's not the it's not
the speech it's how its amplified so
what do you do is like say let's let's
say there's someone in the media let's
say it's a prominent feminist and then
you have a bunch of people or let's say
just one person and their Twitter feed
is overwhelmingly attacking this
prominent feminists just consoling
attacking or calling her a liar calling
her this calling that when do you decide
this is harassment when decide this is
hate speech when like how do you
immediately look at the concepts there's
a fictional account right yes you know
person we're talking about but in this
for instance what what would dictate
something that was egregious enough for
you to eliminate them from your plot
well that's a that's a that's a heavy
action so that's the last resort but we
look at the conduct we look at
oftentimes as you said like the the
probability of someone who is harassing
one person it's highly probable that
they're also harassing ten more people
right so we can look at that behavior we
can look at how many times this person
is being blocked or muted or reported
and based on all those all that data we
can actually take some action but we
also have to we have to correlate it
with the other side of that because
people go on and they coordinate blocks
as well and they coordinate harassment
and they and they coordinate I'm sorry
not harassment but reporting reporting a
particular account to get it shut down
and to to take the voice off the service
so these are the considerations we have
to make but it's it's it all starts with
conduct and all oftentimes we'll see
coordinated conduct whether it be that
one person opening multiple accounts or
coordinating with multiple accounts that
they don't own to you know go after
someone and there's a bunch of vectors
that people use retweet for that the
quote tweet for that a lot as well like
you know they'll quote tweet a tweet
that someone finds and they'll say look
at this idiot Twitter do your thing and
then just this mob starts and goes and
tries to effectively shut that person
down so there's a bunch of tools we can
use the permanent suspension is the last
resort one of the things that we can do
is we can down rank the replies so any
of these any of these behaviors and
conduct that looks linked linked we can
actually push farther down in the reply
chain so it's all still there but you
might have to push a button to actually
see it you might have to show more
replies to actually see this harassing
account or what might look like
harassing language and this is manually
done no this is this is all this is all
automated its automated yeah yeah but
how would you love the ranking in the
and looking at
and looking at the network is is
automated right like in terms of down
ranking is there a discussion as to
whether or not this person's replies
should be down ranked like how do you
how do you figure that out it's it's a
machine learning and deep learning model
and they just say I did say I and they
and they learned you know and we we look
at we look at how these things are doing
and where they make mistakes and then we
improve it it's just constantly
improving and constantly learning and
does that feel like censorship to you
like automated censorship because I mean
who's to decide other than people
whether or not something is valid well
we're not we're not looking at the at
the speech in this particular case we're
looking at the conduct like on the
conduct of like someone in fast velocity
attacking someone else okay right so
those are the things that our technology
allows it changes the velocity changes
how you know to broadcast a message that
someone didn't really ask for and didn't
want to hear we don't touch if I follow
Joe Rogan you'll see every single tweet
we don't touch it right right but that's
an audience that you earn but in your
replies page we have a little bit more
room because this is a this is a
conversation that starts up and some
people just want to disrupt it and and
all we're saying is we're gonna look at
move in the disruption down not that
it's hidden but it's still there but you
know you just see it a little bit
farther down like there was a what was
the incidence with re I should text him
right now get him to answer me in
real-time but Ari Shaffir got kicked off
of Twitter because he said something to
Bert like Bert I'm gonna fuckin kill you
Bert Kreischer being our good friend all
of us are good friends and he's like you
fucking dummy I'm gonna kill you or
something because I record albums he
said he was like gonna steal and I'm
break him wanna go jokingly got mad Bert
was pretending I think was all bullshit
I don't think that really stole his
rectum yeah he gave him back to him
eventually yeah yeah yeah he's like I'm
gonna fucking kill you so what happened
there what probably happen there and I'm
not sure the particular case but will
probably happen there is someone might
have reported that tweet one of our
agents human agents without context of
their friendship mm-hmm
or that relationship saw it as a violent
threat and took action on it right and
those are the mistakes that we're going
to make that's why we need an appeals
process or Burton needs to keep his
fucking greasy hands off Ahri's records
right that's probably not gonna happen
we we need to we need to make sure we
need to make sure that we're reacting in
the right way
yeah like look we're going to make
mistakes we're trying to that the
problem with this system right now is
most of the most of the work is actually
and and the burden is actually on the
victims of abuse while they're getting
harassed mm-hmm so a lot of our system
doesn't enforce or act unless these
tweets are reported right so we don't
take suspension actions or removal of
content actions unless it's reported the
algorithms rank and order of the
conversation but they don't take
suspension actions they don't take they
don't remove content they might suggest
to human to look at this who might look
at our rules and look at the content and
and try to look at the context of the
conversation and then take action but we
would like to move towards a lot more
automated enforcement but more
importantly how do we how do we
highlight how do we amplify more of the
healthier discussion conversation again
not removing it I we're going to a world
especially with technologies like
blockchain that all content that exists
that has ever created will exist forever
you won't be able to take it down you
won't be able to censor it it won't be
centralized at all
our role is around what we recommend
based on your interest and based on who
you follow and and and helping you to
get into that on-ramp but if you look at
the architecture it's a given that
anytime something is created it's going
to exist forever this is what blockchain
helps enable down the line and we need
to make sure that we're paying attention
to that and also realizing that you know
our role is like how do we how do we get
people the stuff that they really want
to see in the fine valuable that they'll
learn from that they'll make them think
that that will help them evolve the
conversation as well now when you say
amplify the messages that you deem to be
more positive right like how do you
decide that people decided people decide
people decide it based on like are they
engaging in replies are they are they
retweeting it are they liking it are
they sometimes it's really negative like
sometimes the people that are engaging
in are engaging because they're
attacking someone so Dee is that
valuable or is it just unfortunate it's
valuable I mean every every signal is
something that we can learn from and we
can act on but it it's going to
constantly evolve right it's these these
these models that we have to build will
constantly have to learn what the
network is doing and and how people are
using it and you know our goal is
healthy contribution back to the public
conversation that that is what we want
we want to encourage people into more
bigger informative global conversations
that they learn from you like constantly
aware of how much this is changing
society and that you are one of the four
or five different modalities that are
radically changing society whether it's
Facebook or Instagram or any of these
social media companies it's radically
changing the way people communicate with
each other like there's a there's a a
giant impact on the way human beings
talk you know and see each other and the
way we process ideas and the way we
distribute information it's
unprecedented there's never been
anything like that before
and you setting up something that you
think is gonna be a group chat do you
remember the early days when you would
say like at Jack is going to the movies
you would say like that's how we would
say it I would say at Joe Rogan is on
his way to dinner yeah that's how people
would do at it
it's fucking it was weird now that
somewhere along the line that morphed in
more because that's what the world
wanted to do with it that's what that's
where they wanted to take
yeah and I just think it's so reflective
of what the world is and in some cases
what the world wants to be so it's a
pathway for thinking just a pathway for
people to get their thoughts out but a
really powerful one an unprecedented
method of distributing information it's
really nothing ever been like this
before no no and in it won't this this
mode of communicating will not go away
it'll just get faster it will become a
lot more connected and that's why our
work is so critical to figure out some
of the dynamics at play that that that
make it that that cause more negative
outcomes and positive outcomes I think
about it because well I think about it
because it's it's just a hugely
significant thing but I also think about
it because of podcast because podcasts
are in a similar way just no one saw it
coming and the people that are involved
in it or like what the fuck are we doing
they're like me I'm like what am i doing
like what is this yeah like for me it's
like ooh boy I get to talk to guys like
Ben Greenfield and and Jonathan hate and
all these different people and learn
some stuff you know I've clearly learned
way more from doing this podcast than I
ever would have learned without it no
doubt about it unquestionably but I
didn't I didn't fucking plan this so now
all of a sudden there's this signal that
I'm sending out to millions and millions
of people and then people like well you
have a responsibility I'm like oh great
well I didn't want that I didn't want a
responsibility to what-what I distribute
I just wanted to be able to have a freak
show just talk to people like whatever
you know like there's certain people
that I have on whether it's Alex Jones
or anyone that's controversial where
people will get fucking mad why are you
giving this person a platform I go okay
mm-hmm I didn't think about it that way
and I don't think that's what I'm doing
I think I'm talking to people and you
can listen yeah but it's giving that
person a platform because they said well
no they'll tone down they're like Milo
you Napoles that was one
arguments people gave me like he toned
down his platform when he was on your
show so he could get more people to pay
attention to him like okay but he also
talked about he that was one of the
reasons why he was exposed was my show
because he talked about that it's okay
to have sex with underage boys if
they're gay because there's like a
mentor relationship between the older
gay man and the young people like what
the fuck are you talking about and that
was a big part of why he's kind of been
removed from the public conversation
that was there was one of the thing and
then there's the discussion like well
what is that what is removing someone
from the public conversation if someone
is very popular and they've have all
these people that like to listen to them
like what is the responsibility of these
platforms whether it's YouTube or
Twitter or or anyone what is their
responsibility and to decide whether or
not someone should or shouldn't be able
to speak and this is a thing that I've
been struggling with and I've been
bounced around inside my own head and I
see that you guys struggle with it and
pretty much everyone does YouTube does
and it's um it is a hugely significant
discussion that is left to a very you
know relatively small amount of people
and this is why this discussion of what
is social media is it's something that
everybody has a right to or is it
something that should be restricted to
only people that are willing to behave
and carry themselves in a certain way I
believe it's something that everyone has
a right to everyone has a right to but
you still ban people like say like like
Alex Jones you guys were the last guys
to keep Alex Jones on the planet form
you were the last ones no yeah I believe
you hung in there until he started
harassing you personally right no no he
he did not into your house he yeah you
know he did very different things on our
platform first as the others okay so we
saw this domino effect over a weekend of
one platform banning him and then
another another another in very very
quick succession right and you know
people I think would have assumed that
we would just have followed
he didn't violate our Terms of Service
right and afterwards he did and and we
have you know we have a we have a policy
and if if you know that there's a
violation we take enforcement actions
one might be asking the account holder
to delete the tweet another might be a
temporary suspension another might be a
permanent suspension so what you saying
is so like let's use in terms of like
him saying that Sandy Hook was fake he
did not say that on the platform he did
not say that on Twitter he only said
that on his show I don't know I don't
know I don't know all the mediums he
said it in well what we're looking at is
the is a is a conduct and what he did on
our platform so what did he do on your
platform that was like that you all were
in agreement that is enough I'm not I'm
not sure what the what the actual like
you know violations were but we have we
have a set number of actions and if they
keep getting if device if an account
keeps violate in terms of service
ultimately it leads to permanent
suspension and when all the other
platforms were taking him off we didn't
find those we didn't we didn't find
those violations and they weren't
reported but again it goes back to a lot
of our model people weren't reporting a
lot of the tweets that may have been in
violation on our service and we didn't
act on them right like a good instance
is what's going on with patreon I'm sure
you're aware of the sargon of akkad
thing he did a podcast a long time ago I
believe six months or so ago where he
used the n-word and the way he used it
is actually against white nationalists
and he also said a bunch of other stuff
and they decided patreon decided that
what he said on a podcast was enough for
them to remove him from the platform
even though he didn't do anything on
their platform there that was egregious
and also they had previously stated that
they were only judging things that
occurred on their platform yeah there's
been a giant blowback because of the
because people are saying well now
you're you're essentially policing and
not based on his actions just on
concepts and the the communication that
he was using the way he was talking yeah
you're you are eliminating him from
being able to make a living and that
you're doing this because he does not
fit into your political paradigm the way
you want to view the world
he used the world differently this is an
opportunity for you to eliminate someone
who you disagree with yeah yeah I mean
that I don't know the nuances of their
policy but like we we have to pay
attention to folks who are using Twitter
to shut down the voices of others right
that's where it gets weaponized and we
also have to pay attention to where
people are using it that put other folks
in physical danger and that is where we
need to be most severe but otherwise
everyone has a right to these
technologies and I think they also have
a right to make sure that they have a
very simple and open read of the rules
and and we're not in a great state there
are our rules and our enforcement can be
extremely confusing to people what has
been the one thing that came up that was
perhaps the most controversial like I
know my friend sam harris was trying to
get you guys to ban Donald Trump he was
saying if they follow your Terms of
Service I just did a podcast with him
that should come out today or tomorrow
he's I love them to death but what he
was trying to do was like saying hey
he's threatening nuclear war like he's
saying hey Korea my bombs are bigger
than your bombs like what else does the
guy have to do to get you to remove him
from the platform when you guys saw that
what was your reaction to that and was
there an internal discussion about
actually banning the president United
States well so the so two things are one
it was a context that presidents of this
country have used similar language in
different mediums they use it on radio
they use it on television it's not just
through Twitter and even if you were
looking you were to look at the
presidency of Obama
it wasn't exactly the same tone in this
exact same language but there were
threats around the same country and we
have to take that context into
consideration so the second thing is
that we need the most controversial
aspect of our rules and our Terms of
Service is probably this clause around
public interest in newsworthiness we're
powerful figures or public figures might
be in violation of our Terms of Service
but the tweet itself is of public
interest yes there should be a
conversation around it and that is
probably the thing that people disagree
with the most and where we have a lot of
internal debate but we also have some
pretty hard lines if we had a global
leader including the president United
States make a violent threat against a
private individual we would take action
we we always have to balance out with
like is this a is this something that
the public has interest in and I believe
generally the answer is yes it's not
going to be in every case but generally
the answer is yes because we should see
how our leaders think and how they act
in essentially forms voting that informs
the conversation then forms whether we
think they're going to they're doing the
right job or we think that you know they
should be they should be voted out well
it it's very important to see how
someone uses that platform and when
someone uses it the way he uses it and
then becomes president and continues to
use it that way that's when people like
what he's been consistent and I think I
think he joined in in 2009 2012 yeah you
look at all of his tweets all the way
back then and it's pretty consistent
yeah I mean he likes to install people
on Twitter it's fun no it's just I never
thought he would keep doing it I thought
once he became president maybe he just
lock it down try to do a good job for
the country and then you know after four
years or eight years just go back to his
old self fuck you fuck the world fuck
this yeah and but no he's he's he's just
kidding it's just
in one way it's hilarious see as a
comedian I think it's awesome because
it's just it's so hilariously stupid
it's so preposterous that even has the
time to talk about Jeff Bezos is fair
and the fact that he got caught with the
National Enquirer getting text messages
and calls him Jeff bozo like don't you
have shit to do man
but as a comedian I am a gigantic fan of
folly almost against my better judgment
I like watching it's I watch I like
watching disasters I like watching chaos
when I see nonsense like that I'm like
oh Jesus
like I'm drawn like a moth to a flame
but on the other part of me is like man
this sets a very bizarre tone for the
entire country because one of the things
about Obama like Obama or hate Obama he
was very measured very articulate
obviously very well educated and I think
that that aspect of his presidency was
very good for all of us because he
represented something that was of a very
high standard in terms of his ability to
communicate his access to words the way
the way he measured his words and held
himself I think that that's good for us
that's parishioner votes yeah it's like
look at that guy he's talked better than
me that's why he's the president but you
know you see Trump II like he's doesn't
talk better than me he does he doesn't
use Twitter better he's not he's just
this fucking madman but isn't it
important to understand that yes I see
it as I to it hopefully that informs
opinions and actions a hundred percent
that's my point that's my point it's
like that this is this weird gray area
where I think overall I definitely
support your decision to not not ban him
for violating your Terms of Service like
you we need to know yeah you know and
it's how do you know how many accounts
are BOTS how many how do you know how
many accounts are from a Russian troll
farm yeah how do you know that so this
is a real challenge and something that
we're we're trying to wrap
our heads around but like one of the
things we're trying to do is like let's
scope the problem down a bit look let's
use the technology we have available to
us like face ID like touch ID like the
biometrics stuff to identify the humans
humans knows that because face IDs not
really a valid is it available to you
guys do you know you just leaked
something we shouldn't no no we haven't
we haven't used it yet but you can use
it for things like is this human
operating this I'd say use it for that
since it's completely locked into the
local device we don't have access to
images of your face or what not but the
operating system can tell us that this
is the legit owner of this phone and
therefore it is it is a human and
Technology always has to change people
will find ways around that and whatnot
but if we go the opposite direction and
we look for the bots the problem with
looking for the bots is people assume
that they just come through our API but
the scripting has become extremely
sophisticated people can script the app
can script the website and make it look
very very human mm-hmm so we're we're
going after this problem first trying to
identify the humans as much as we can
utilizing these technologies you know
this is is live right now these are
these are considerations that we're
making and and trying to understand like
what the impact would be and and how we
might evolve it but we we need to
because that information would provide
context for someone like this is an
actual human that I'm talking to and I
can invest more time in it or I can just
ignore the thing because it's
meaningless now is Apple willing to
share that with you I mean when you're
talking about biometrics fingerprints or
face not the not the data it's just the
operating system verifies that there's
an individual as an individual and it's
unlocking you know like like you know
when when you use the are cash app uses
us right so squares cash app when you
want to make a transfer to someone when
you want to send someone money or when
you want to buy Bitcoin we turn on face
ID and you verify that you are you and
you are the owner of the phone and
and then it goes we don't get images of
your face we don't see who you are oh
that's what you want me to think I know
that's how lockdown by the operating
system should be right sure what has
there ever been in any consideration to
not allowing people to post anonymously
well like what you said earlier about
journalists and whistleblowers that is
biblical so look at a look at platforms
that have a real names policy look at
Facebook right are the problems any
different I don't know
cuz I don't go there before I understand
there's a lot of still a lot of arguing
there it's the same a lot of political
argument if they're the same vectors
same patterns that's older it's like
older in general it seems I also
Naughton really hanging out there but it
seems a little bit older it's a lot of
Grammys looking at pictures of their
kids grandkids and stuff that's what
it's made for it's connecting it's
connecting with the people that you know
and and that to me is the biggest
difference for Twitter it's connection
with people you don't know well you find
interesting and like it's around it's
around topics and stuff that you find
that you want to learn more about when
you saw Zuckerberg testifying and in in
realizing like how this platform is
being used and what are the dangers of
this and then you see these senators
that really don't know what the fuck the
technology is or it's it really
highlights how we wrapped this really
yeah well not just a gap a gap in the
critical understanding of how these
things work and what they are in terms
of like how these really important
politicians who are the ones who are
making these decisions as to whether or
not someone has violated laws or whether
or not something should be curbed or
regulated and they don't really even
understand what they're talking about no
I mean there's there's a few people do
because they're not they're not using it
directly they're not using in the way
that people are using it every single
day and have the same experience that
people have every single day and you
know in terms of regulatory and and our
regulators and our governments I you
know we I think the conversation is
often about
regulators will come in and start
writing rules and and setting
expectations for how companies or
services might behave but there's a role
for the company to educate and there's a
role for the company to educate on like
what technology makes possible whether
it be positive and and also some of the
negatives that become possible as well
so I think we have a role to help
educate and to and help make sure that
we're you know really we're pushing
towards what I think the job of regular
regulator is which is number one protect
the individual number two level the
playing field and make sure that those
two things are not compromised by
special interest trying to protect their
own domain or profits or or dominance
within a particular market what do you
mean by level the playing field of the
playing field so that an individual has
the same opportunity that someone else
might have or a company might have so
okay so like anybody know anyone would
account anyone can have a twitter
account and you know they have at least
you know an equal opportunity to
contribute to it and whatever they do
with it will change the change the
outcome some people might become very
popular because they're saying stuff
people want to hear some people won't
see any following whatsoever because
they're not adding anything original or
interesting or or or different in terms
of perspective where do you see this
going when you look at these kind of
emerging technologies not something
necessarily emerging any more
established now but still you know a new
thing in relative terms of human history
where do you see this going and does it
get more intrusive does it get deeper
into our lives like what what when you
look at new technologies like augmented
reality and things along those lines
do you see new possibilities and new
things that make things even more
complicated I mean yeah I mean we just
have to assume that we we naturally use
more and more technologies more and more
things become open more and more things
increase their velocity there's more
communication not less like this is not
going away and it's just a question of
what we do with it so we're where I
wanted to go is and where I want Twitter
specifically to go is I you know I I
think it's existential right now that we
we we have global conversations about
some things that will become crisis
climate change being one of them there's
no one nation state that's going to
solve that problem alone economic
disparity being another the the rise of
AI and job displacement and and just
like us offloading decisions to these to
these algorithms those are the things
that that no one nation no one community
is going to solve alone it takes the
entire world to do so so I want to make
sure that we're doing our best to get
people seeing these global conversations
and ideally participating in them
because it helps it helps us solve the
problems faster I just believe that more
open society allows us to solve problems
much faster so you in many ways see
Twitter as having some sort of a social
responsibility and this distally totally
totally yeah and I think a big part of
is like right now like how are we how
are we ensuring that there is more
healthy contribution to that global
conversation and you know and I just
think it's it's so critical that we
start talking about the things that are
facing all of us not just one nation I
do think you know that that's where our
current model really puts the world at a
disadvantage because it incentivizes
more of the echo chambers which lead to
things like nationalism instead of
taking the broader picture and looking
at what's happening around the world to
all people to all of humanity what do
you do though to balance the
conversation or what responsibility do
you think you have to balance a
conversation in terms of the way
conservatives view it versus the way
liberals and progressives view it down
in shells there is there a
responsibility do you have a
responsibility or is it just leave it up
to the people and let them figure it out
the same way they figured out hashtags
and and ever
else I I think we have a responsibility
to make it easier to do that easier
house right right now it's just it's
just too hard most most people will not
particular mindset they will they will
not venture out they will not break
their bubble um but if you because it's
right now on the surface is just so hard
to do that I I can only follow accounts
and I have to I have to look into and
just imagine like you know trying to get
an understanding of your own politics
people can't just look at your bio they
have to look through all your tweets
they have to listen to a bunch of your
podcasts and whatnot and that's a bunch
of work if we shift it more towards
topics and interest at least we have the
potential to see a bunch more
perspectives we see do that though
simplest thing is like follow a hashtag
follow a topic like why can't you just
follow warriors Twitter or you know NBA
Twitter why do you have to go and find
all the coaches and the players and and
the team so we can do that we can help
make that a whole lot easier for folks
so there's something like brexit or
something that so if you go to hashtag
brexit you're gonna get the whole
conversation you're gonna get the pros
the cons the left the right the whole
deal the centrists you get everybody
versus following the people that you
already follow that agree with what you
think the probability is higher that
you'll get more you'll get more variety
perspective and not even don't even
follow brexit follow vote leave if you
want to leave but within that topic
there might be some dissenting opinions
and you get to choose whether you those
inform you whether that emboldened your
position or not but and and again I'm
not saying that we should force that
upon it but it's not easy to even do
that today right the only tool we give
you is finding and following the
accounts and that what people search
hashtags they do search assets right
they don't they send their timeline I
mean it's a small percentage of people
the people that really know Twitter know
how to do that but most people they
follow an account and they stay in the
timeline and what their world is their
timeline the hashtags can be corrupted
too I mean otally they can be gamed yeah
be gamed
yeah I've taken over I took over hashtag
vegan cat go to hashtag what is what is
that it's a rap that's mine now bit in
my last my last Netflix special about a
woman who said a bunch of horrible
things to me because I put a picture up
on Instagram of some deer meat
I wrote this is some meat from a deer
that like to kick babies and was about
to join Isis and then I wrote hashtag
vegan which was a mistake right to write
hashtag vegan tomorrow but the hashtag
vegan people went fucking crazy and came
after me because I entered their
timeline with meat if you could hashtag
vegan cat it's all either pictures of
see like it says Joe Rogan right thank
you I haven't laughed that hard tomorrow
hashtag vegan cat it's people that are
feeding their fucking cat vegan food and
they're all dying and I in the special I
say every cat looks like it's living in
a house with a gas leak like they're
always like laying there like where the
fuck is the real food but this is real
like this is the conversation but the
thing is if someone does something like
that like you can like pick a person you
know whatever that person is whatever
they're doing if they have a hashtag
that they utilize all the time for their
movement or whatever someone could mock
them and then use that and if it's a
public figure or someone who's got a
prominent voice then all of a sudden
that hashtag becomes people just take it
over and start mocking them with that
hashtag but it has to be done the mouse
I mean it has to be coordinated and
sometimes people like figure out how to
game the system and coordinator in a
amplify that message in a unfair way and
and that's what that's what our systems
are trying to recognize how sick did
that cat look the poor fucking cat that
was a real one that was a real hashtag
vegan cat well it's poor bastards so
when you look back at emerging social
media like we go all the way back to
myspace right MySpace you got Tom Tom
was sitting there and you're in your top
eight and you know people would like
post music that they liked and it was
never political it was very often very
surface and for comics it was a great
way to promote show
and it was it was an interesting way to
see things yeah but it was it was like
like the seed that became Twitter or
Facebook or this is one of them I'd I
think we at least for us like we got
more of our roots from a Ola and some
messenger and I CQ mmm because it was
you know you remember the status message
where you said like I'm in a meeting or
I'm listening this music our movie yeah
that was the inspiration and and what we
took from that was being able to like if
you could do that from anywhere not
bound to a desk but you could do that
from anywhere and you could do from your
phone and you could just be roaming
around and say you know I'm I'm at Joe
Rogan's studio right now that is cool I
don't need my computer I'm not bound to
this unchain to this desk I can I can do
it from anywhere and then the other
aspect of of instant messenger was of
course chat so one of the things that
the status would do is you might you
might say like you know I'm listening to
Kendrick Lamar right now and I might hit
you up on chat and say like what do you
think of the new album but now it's all
public so it's just it everyone can see
it that's that's the biggest difference
and that's that to me is what Twitter is
it might myspace was it was profiles and
you know people organized around these
profiles and this network that developed
between people and that is facebook
facebook facebook optimized the hell out
of that and they scaled the world we we
were something very different we you
know we we started with that simple
status and then people wanted to talk
about it we we decided that it should be
on the same surface it shouldn't be
suburbian to the to the to the status it
should be part of that flow and that's
what makes Twitter you know so fluid now
when you look at this sort of
metamorphosis or this evolution between
those initial social media whether it's
AOL Instant Messenger that eventually
became like CQ and what was that one
that we would use that gamers would use
that it was like a live stream sort of
message board no it was like
for a while people using teamspeak but
uh no no it wasn't your well in that
recent wasn't that wasn't teamspeak it
was like you would go there and share
files and stuff and and people would
would would go like if I supply a lot of
online video games and we play on teams
and we have teams go play other teams
and he would use this sort of it was
like a it wasn't a message board because
it was all in real time what the fuck
was it called no all right forget it
yeah anyway guys would go there and you
could send people files through it yeah
and the teams would go and meet and it
would be a chat like an online chat that
would be in real time yeah it's yeah I
mean we have a lot of our routes and AOL
and semester but also like IRC Internet
Relay Chat and Usenet which were the you
know these old internet seventies
technology IRC is what I was talking
about IRC yeah okay okay yeah so
Internet Relay Chat is like this giant
chat room that anyone can join and so
range around topics and that's what's
interesting about that is you can see
people typing you see it occurring in
real time you see it popping up in real
time yep you know just I wonder like
what is the next evolution of this
because because no one saw anything
going from ICQ to twitter no one saw
anything going from that to Instagram
and to where we're at right now where it
really does flavor the conversation of
our entire culture I mean it before it
was just a thing that was happening that
was happening on people's computers now
it's the thing that's happening on
people's computers and now phones and
now your whole life it's it's it's a
very different influence yeah and I
wonder because everything does
accelerate things constantly move
forward and become more and more more
and more integrated into our life
experience and I wonder what is the next
stage of this if I mean like the the
secular trends and you know you look at
technology and you look at technologies
like like blockchain for instance and I
think you know we're we're moving to a
world where anything created exists
forever that there's no centralized
control
over who sees what that you know these
these these models become completely
decentralized and all these barriers
that we that exist today aren't as
important anymore
what do you think of something like gab
like gab seems to be a response to the
fact that some people are getting banned
from other platforms and they're just
allowing anybody to come on say anything
they want
you know the downside of that is of
course the most horrible people are
gonna be able to say anything they want
with no repercussions the good side is
anybody can say whatever they want yeah
I haven't studied them too much but I do
know that they have taken action on
accounts as well they have suspended
accounts and they have they have learned
a service as well what have they suspend
that accounts for I don't know it's it's
probably conduct related it's probably
it might be daxing you know probably
right but it's just it's just a question
of like you know the rules and if you
agree to the rules then you know you
sign up for the service and if if not
there will be other services but like it
I you look at you look at the trends and
I think you know and certainly things
become a lot more public certainly
things become a lot more open certainly
the the berries and the boundaries that
we have in place today become less
meaningful and I think there's a lot of
positives in that and I also think
there's a lot of danger that we need to
be mindful of now you as a CEO as a guy
who's running this thing what what has
this been his experience in like for you
because I got to imagine that it wasn't
anything that you predicted no one
predicted Twitter right now so to all
the sudden have this responsibility
Witter changes everything and you're a
young guy how old are you 42 that's
young to be in control of that much like
what and to have it over the time of
what has it been 11 years 13 years well
there's 13 in March Hill yeah so you
were really fucking young yeah like what
is that been like for you it's been a
it's been both beautiful and scary and
comfortable and learning it's just been
a ton of learning and evolving and like
it it shows me every single day where I
need to push myself and what I don't
know and and I I think a big part is
like just the realization that we're not
gonna be able to do this alone and I
don't think we have to either that these
are these are what the technologies that
continue to allow is we can if we have
to have all the answers around
enforcement or policy what not we're not
going to serve the world we have
aspirations to serve every single person
on the planet and we we have aspirations
to you know be the first consideration
for the global public conversation and
you know if we're the bottleneck for all
this we're not going to reach those
aspirations so it's just thinking deeply
about how we might distribute more of
this work and decentralize more of it
and look at look at you know the
platform itself and like what we need to
change to reach that reality and I think
we got to look really deep and
foundational is it it goes back to you
know the your question on 140 one of the
things that we saw was you know we
shifted to 280 characters and that you
know this 140 characters is so sacred
you know it became this cultural thing
and and I was in love with it and so
many people are in love with it but one
of the things we noticed as we moved to
280 is that the vast majority of tweets
that are broadcast don't go above 140
even with that limitation raised but
where they do go above 140 is in replies
when people reply they tend to go over
the 140 character limit and even bump up
into the 280 limit and what did a lot
what we've seen it allow is just more
nuance in the conversation it allows
people to give more context and and and
kind of just get their experience on the
table a little bit more whereas 140 did
not allow that so we have seen that
increase the health of those
conversations in the discussion so it's
stuff like that that we need to question
and not hold so sacred is there any
consideration to expanding it further
now right now we were how about a
million characters no well we don't have
edit tweets right now so we that's good
or bad well if you can't edit a 140
characters you're gonna be really pissed
off if you write a million characters
you can add those things you know what I
would like I would like edit the ability
to edit like if you make a typo or
something like that but also the ability
for people to see the original yeah like
edit but see the original like say we're
looking at exactly that oh we're looking
at exactly that the reason we don't have
it in the first place is we were born on
SMS we were born on text messaging when
you send a text you can't take it back
right so when you send a tweet it goes
to the world instantaneously right you
can't take it back so when we exist
anyway I mean no matter what if you send
someone something even if you an
Instagram people are gonna know the
original yeah they screenshot it and
they yeah you know they do the thing but
like you could build it such that you
know maybe we introduced a five-second
two 30-second delay in descending and
within that window you can edit I'm
gonna need more time than that dude if I
fuck something up I like someone has to
tell me but man you you misspelled that
word
ah shit did I god damn it these two
times autocorrect gets yeah totally but
the issue with going longer than that it
takes that real-time nature and the
conversation will flow out of it like so
and then we're delaying these tweets and
like when you're watching UFC are you
watching like Warriors basketball a lot
of a lot of the great Twitter is like
just like in the moment just like you
know it's the roar of the crowd it's
like you know looking across at someone
you're in this virtual stadium with and
just saying like oh my god that shot can
you believe it but isn't isn't clarity
more important because you're not gonna
depend on the context yeah can I have
the ability to communicate quickly yeah
but you also have the ability to clarify
that's that's where we need to really
pay attention because if you're if
you're in the context of an NBA game you
want to be fast and you just want to be
at the moment you just you know you want
to be raw but if you're in the context
of considering what the president just
did or making a particular statement
then you probably need some some more
time and and we can be dynamic there
what's interesting to me is how few
people use video like I thought
you guys have video on Twitter Michael a
bunch of people gonna be making videos
and putting those up on Twitter and it's
not it's not that often it depends on
who you follow it it's huge
for some aspects of Twitter it's it's
it's less so and others but what aspects
is it huge for a lot of a lot of sports
I mean we see a lot of like just the the
replays and the recaps
right for sure you know aspects of a
particular shot that people want to
comment on I don't like I think it's
dangerous for us to to focus too much on
the medium whether it be images or gifts
or video it's it's more about the
conversation around it like that's what
we want optimized for it's definitely
very popular for sports and in Folly and
you know there's a what is a there's
there's a bunch of animal attack videos
the yeah natures metals a good one and
hold my beer that's another good one I
mean it's all videos but what I meant
was people making a video talking yeah
that's something yeah this is what I was
trying to say what I think is this in
that blah blah blah you don't see a lot
of that and I thought maybe that would
be something that people would adopt
more it's a different speed you know and
I think like the the consumption of
video I mean you see this in the
technology right now like people are
subtitling every single video because
people might be an environment where
they can't turn the audio on or like a
video like I have to scrub through to
see what's interesting with text I can
just see it and there's it allows for a
lot of serendipity to find something
that I probably wouldn't have seen
unless I watched the whole damn video so
like the ability to clip something the
ability to like index in I think is
really critical so it's not to me it's
not about the format it's about the the
use case in the context of urine now
going back to the responsibility that
you guys have and you in particular like
when this became what it is now and when
it became evident that it became this
gigantic way of changing the way human
beings communicate with each other was
there ever any regret or was there ever
a moment where you're like what the fuck
have I gotten myself into
I mean um there's the I'm always
reflective of where I am and what I'm
doing I think that the the biggest has
been around twofold one how the dynamics
of the service allow it to be weaponized
in order to silence someone else or to
drive them off the service entirely
which goes against the entire concept of
free speech and free participation like
we we just can't stand for that we we
need to make sure that everyone feels
that they have an opportunity at a voice
and when you have these coordinated
attacks it just it's not fair
the second is around you know this this
concept of an echo chamber and the
filter bubble I just I don't feel
personally good about that I don't feel
I don't feel that we thought that
through enough in the early days I think
we should have moved towards biasing the
service towards topics and interests
much much sooner than we're now
considering doing now when you have
these considerations when you take these
actions do you consult with
psychologists or sociologists or
historians or people that try to put in
perspective for you what the
ramifications of each individual move
would be I try to read as much as
possible I try to talk to as many people
as possible just get a completely
different perspective and is there any
internal disagreement about actions that
you take oh yeah there's there's always
there's always debate there's always
debate but I think my role is to ask ask
questions and make sure like are like
what what is our goal here what are we
trying to do you know and that evolves
that of that evolved that evolves like
and is this over the long term going to
be
a net positive for all humans all
humanity like how do we balance the
considerations of you know how we serve
everyone and like how do we get down to
something how do we get down to a
fundamental answer in a central answer
and and that to me is where the real
truth is is when you can get to
something foundational but I like you
know I like
conversations with as many people from
as many different fields as possible and
getting the perspective on it so I ask
questions all the time it's interesting
the way you're phrasing this too that
you you are looking at this as a method
to save or to hurt it to help people to
serve people you're looking at this as a
way that you can benefit society the
society can benefit from your platform
can benefit from this this ability to
communicate you're not just looking at
it as a tech company that has to remain
profitable and it's one of the more
interesting things about tech companies
to me I mean there's been a lot of
criticism may be justified in some ways
that tech companies all lean left but
what is interesting to me is that name
another corporation that willingly of
its own choice takes that into
consideration that they want to serve
the world and serve culture in a
beneficial way regardless of profit yeah
I mean because you can you're not really
selling anything right you guys have a
platform obviously it's financially
viable but you're not you're not selling
things well I mean we we do our models
based off people's attention yeah and
and they're paying us with their
attention and that's extremely valuable
and something that we need to really
really honor but I agree with you I mean
like look at look at Tesla you know
they're you know I I just listened to
the the recent earnings call and one of
the things that yuan said was look there
are two reasons for Tesla number one is
to advance you know different sources of
energy and more renewable sources of
energy because it's a fundamental and
existential crisis that's facing all
humanity and number two is to advance
autonomy because it'll save lives and
give people time back and you know then
you start talking about how to make that
possible and that's where you know our
business comes in how do we how do we
make
possible and we we have a we have a
great business we we need to improve a
bunch of it but we it it serves what we
think are larger purposes which is
serving the public conversation we want
to see more global public conversations
we want to we want our technology to be
used to make the world feel a lot
smaller to help see what common problems
we have before us and ideally you know
how we can get people together to solve
them faster and solve them better you
also seem to be embracing this
responsibility that you're you're
helping to evolve culture and this is
part of the providing this method to
communication of communication rather
it's helping to evolve culture and this
is a this is something that is really
only applicable to tech companies in
some strange way and it's weird that so
many of them share this like I was
personally a little weirded out when
Google took out don't be evil like that
was a big part of their operating model
they take that out yes yes right make
sure that I don't want you sued pretty
sure they removed that from what would
you call that there there are
operational directive like what is
wasn't a code of conduct of conduct and
it's not there anymore right they
removed it so yeah that's the article
that says they removed the clause and
this is a weird thing to tell people not
to be evil there's another way they
changed it to do the right thing yeah oh
well what does that mean the fuck does
do the right thing mean do the right
thing so you can make more money you
know like hey we're gonna make money
we'll do the right thing it makes more
money yeah I mean it's I mean that's
that's why like that's why this openness
is so critical I mean that's why I like
the public comment to me the public
conversation is so important is we can
talk about stuff like that and like
there will be companies forming today
that look at objectives and mandates
like that and base their whole culture
around it and is that the right idea
well no but if we're not talking about
it we won't be able to answer that
question
well it's also interesting because
Google is so all-encompassing right you
have Gmail you have Android I mean that
is they are the number one operating
system for mobile phones in the world on
top of being a search engine there's so
much involved in that company and again
like almost all tech companies they
heavily lean left and they because they
had that don't be evil as a part of
their code of conduct it seemed like
something that was a good idea to have
like and it sort of defined what I was
talking about that tech companies are
uniquely progressive yeah I mean I I
don't know I don't know what makes that
I think um no matter what like we the
Internet allows for a very healthy
skepticism of nearly everything yeah um
I'm from I'm from Missouri it's a show
me state are you yeah I'm from st. Louis
Missouri we're all skeptics my mom was a
Democrat my dad was a Republican my dad
listen to Rush Limbaugh and Hannity all
the time I found myself somewhere in the
middle but one of the things I
appreciated we had a ton of fights and
arguments and yell and matches around
the kitchen table but like I appreciate
the fact that I we could have them and I
did it I felt safe to do so and I didn't
feel like I mean obviously than my
parents but they weren't judging me
because of what I said and they didn't
force you to be a Republican or a you
know like I I think they were good at
least showing different perspectives
even in you know this in this union that
that they have and I don't know it
developed it developed a skepticism in
me that I that I think is is healthy and
I have a lot of skepticism of companies
like ours and leaders like me I think
that's right I think that's right and
people should
and we I mean I was I was I or was
formed through a lot of the ideals of
the you know not I just fell in love
with what it made possible and I I never
ever want to run afoul of of those
ideals and and you know the the the
removal of barriers and boundaries and
and the connection that we have because
of it and I you know I I think often and
reflect often about my role and the
centralization of my role and of our
company and I I want to I want to figure
out and help figure out like how we can
continue to add massive value and and be
an amazing business which is is us and
will always be us but at the same time
be a participant participatory force in
this greater good that the Internet has
really started and it's not it's not led
by any one individual or any one company
and that's the beauty of it and I want
to I want to make sure that we find our
place in that and we can also contribute
massively to it and then I think we can
it's just gonna take a lot of work a lot
of introspection and a lot of
experimentation a lot of making mistakes
and failures too well and it's very
encouraging that you have that attitude
because you know a lot of people I think
in a similar situation would try to
control the narrative they would try to
reinforce their own particular
perspective on things and try to get
other people to adopt it or try to push
it and I think it is it's very important
to just have this open discussion and
and I think it's very important to
review your own thoughts and ideas and
all the best ways to do so put it out
there put it out there and have other
people review peer review is a great
process and that's where's the way this
podcast has evolved more than probably
anything yeah that's the thing I mean
you you you did this because you want to
learn from people and and that the
platform that you've created millions
get to learn from it as well
and that's just so amazing like I
learned from your podcast all the time
and in that's what technology makes
possible but with that power also comes
ramifications and if we're not talking
about the ramifications and like at
least being open about what we know and
what we don't know and I think we're I
think we state and post a lot more of
what we know rather than what we don't
know is so interesting once you guys
steal don't be evil put that your own
what is that telling our employees to do
don't be it's real simple
don't be a dick yeah I mean how do we
get deeper and just like seeing more
conversation around what is quote
unquote evil have you guys considered
expanding your influence and other
venues like you know Google started off
as a search engine now it's fucking
everything how do you guys considered
doing something similar I think we
probably did too much of that early on
and that's what led to a bunch of issues
from from a corporate standpoint we're
just trying to do too much it too many
times I don't know we were trying to be
everything to everyone and like you know
we we had a you know a video thing and
we had we're looking at gaming stuff and
messaging and it lost focus of what we
were good at
what we're good at is conversation and
what we're good as is is public
conversation so we now have as a company
we have just such a amazing focus on
what that means and how that evolves and
there's just there's some really cool
things that we can do there like we have
this we have this app called periscope
and one of the things that we're
discovering is like a lot of people are
using it to podcast a lot of people are
using it to share their thoughts and
these people come in and you know they
chat and have a conversation and one of
the things we did recently as we allowed
the audio to play in the background it's
super simple but what we found was that
people didn't necessarily want to watch
the the video of people talking they
just want to hear what they're saying
and that just opened the door for more
types of use cases and there's some
really exciting things coming out with
periscope that I think add a new
dimension to what conversation looks
like and how it is experienced and how
it evolves and those are the things I
get really excited about it's like how
can we make conversation better and and
how you know how how do we how do we
make it feel more live how do we make it
feel more electric and how do we bring
new new technology into it that just
opens a door for an entirely new way of
talking and and that's the thing that I
think has been most educational to me
about Twitter is we you know as we as we
talked about we started with this idea
of sharing what was happening around you
and then people told us what they wanted
to wanted it to be and it became this
conversational medium it became this
interest networked and it became a it
became a thing that was entirely new and
it you know we observed it and we
learned more and more of what it wanted
to be in we as we get deeper and deeper
that we're gonna be surprised by some of
the technologies that we thought would
be used in this way but it turns out
that the the massive use case and the
resonant use case in the fundamental use
case is going to be created right before
our eyes by the people using it now did
you guys a choir periscope or was
reacquired periscope and what was the
thought process when you requiring it we
we like the live nature of it we like
the the broadcast aspect
why do you I can why keep it as
periscope why not have it be like
Twitter Live there's a there's a
specific community on on on periscope
and I think it's interesting from an
experimentation standpoint we can play
with ideas there it's a small Tigers I
think uses it better than anybody yeah
he's he's he's really good at it
and he's he's one that I think has
figured out you know just the the knack
behind it you know he started
every one of them with with this
simultaneous sip of coffee yeah he gets
his listeners and his viewers engaged
right away and then he just goes on and
then every now and then he'll you know
look at the comments and and riff off
them so that's people build up to like
he he'll announce that he's going on and
then wait a little while say hello to
some people yep then once a bunch of
people are in the room then he starts
talking yeah and I just I find I find
that so interesting because that is the
future of conversation it's looking at
the patterns it's looking at what people
are trying to do with the thing and then
you build technology around it and that
becomes that becomes the next big thing
and we just have to we have to hone our
power of observation hone our power of
like connecting the dots and looking all
the patterns and what people are it's
what's the question behind the question
what's what's the statement behind the
statement that they're making and if we
can get good at understanding some of
those fundamental essential things then
we've reached we've we've at least
created the probability that most people
in the world will find it useful and
find it valuable
Joey Diaz is the other person who uses
to periscope better than anybody alive
but he just gets a nose he just gets
baked it just gives you a morning was he
called morning bong the morning join the
morning joint
yeah he'll smoke a joint or smoke a bowl
in the morning and then just sort of let
everybody know do you in sometimes mine
doing something and sync with one with
with more people is interesting like a
we've we've had some folks who are
interested in doing meditations through
periscope that's a great idea
you can I mean if you if you look at at
the surface level you can't imagine
anything more boring than like watching
someone meditate but if you're actually
meditating with them mmm there's
something powerful about it and like
what can we do to improve that
experience what about people using it
for group workouts is anyone doing that
I'm sure it's happened and I haven't
seen it personally but I'm sure it's
happening how much more people do you
have on Twitter than periscope a lot a
lot
it's uh it's one of those things that I
personally just have a lot of conviction
around and I have a lot of belief and
the format and I you know every now and
then we don't have instant hits we
just requires a lot of patience hmm and
we need to really learn what it wants to
be and sometimes that takes time and you
know I think often times I've certainly
done this we you know we shut down we
shut down things a little bit too early
we did this at square-like we had this
amazing technology and a pile of called
square wallet and it allowed you to you
know you link your credit card and you
have all these merchants around you here
in LA and you could walk up to a coffee
merchant and as you walked up your name
would pop up on the register so you
could say like I want to cappuccino put
it on Jack and it just automatically
charged your card and there would only
happen if you were with him like two
feet we're using Bluetooth and
geolocation whatnot but we you know we
had it for about three years and it just
didn't take off and we shut it down and
I I kind of regret doing that but it
also paved the way for another thing
that I didn't want to give up on and
that was that was the cash app like for
four years it was just a slog like a lot
of people in the company wanted to shut
down the thing they saw it as something
that wasn't successful and you know
recently the team reached number one in
the in the App Store in the United
States and yeah like we'd we we were all
we were against all these incumbents
like venmo and PayPal and and it finally
clicked and it's just because we had the
patience and the conviction around our
belief yeah it's a great app - and the
ethics behind it are really fantastic -
we're really thankful for the cash app
especially my friend Justin ran and his
fight for the Forgotten charity that
every time you use the code word Joe
Rogan's all one word it all goes where
I'm at five dollars goes to to that and
they've built two Wells for the pygmies
in the Congo and there's thousands of
dollars and building more Wells right
now it's really really cool yeah we're
really really happy about that yeah yeah
I love it I think it's um
it's a great way to save money - I mean
when you can save 10% at Whole Foods
yeah I mean that's that's real well if
the other thing is like the the
population that we serve typically are
underserved by banks or unbanked
entirely yeah I'd say we
are their bank account right but more
importantly they don't have access to
things like rewards you don't get
rewards on the typical debit card or
credit card so like just you know going
to your favorite place and and getting
an instant 10% off or whatever it is is
out of reach for most people because the
financial institutions don't enable that
and they won't even enable them to get
in the door in the front in the first
place well if people are listening to
this on YouTube you don't know what the
fuck we're talking about the cash app
has a thing called a cash card which is
a debit card that you get with it and
there's a thing called boosts and with
boosts all you do is pick a boost in the
app and then use your cash card as a
debit card and you get these automatic
discounts and they're real discounts yep
and interests for folks with bad credit
there's no credit check you can direct
deposit your paycheck right into the app
yeah and the fact that you guys do do
things like support fight for the
Forgotten and you're supporting UFC
fighter Ray Bourque son who's got some
serious medical bills no it's really
really cool yeah yeah I'm really I'm
really proud of that I'm really proud of
the team it's a it's a very small team
but they're doing some big things well I
hear a lot of good things about it too
I've run into people on the street to
tell me they use and they're very happy
about it so it's it's nice to see again
an emerging technology that's profitable
but yet also has a really good really
good set of ethics yeah yeah do you have
don't be evil and know why don't one of
our one of our like equivalent operating
principles within cash and square is
like under like how do we understand
someone's struggle like how do we
understand like how do we have the
empathy for like what they're struggling
with and like when it comes to finance
they're struggling with a lot yeah
typically they're struggling with the
ton
what was the the thought process with I
mean one of the things that's kind of
cool about the cash app is that you can
buy and sell Bitcoin with it yeah are
you going you guys going to consider
other forms of cryptocurrency as well
not right now I so back to the internet
I believe that it or not will have a
native currency really it'll have a
native currency and I don't know if it's
Bitcoin it I think it will because just
given all the tests it's been through
and the principles behind it how it was
created and you know it's it was
something that was born on the internet
that was developed on the internet that
was
test it on the it is of the internet and
the reason we you know we enabled the
purchasing of bitcoin with them within
the cash app is one we want to learn
about the technology and we want to put
ourselves out there and take some risk
we're the first publicly traded company
to actually offer it as a service or the
first publicly traded company to talk to
the SEC about Bitcoin and what that what
that means and it made us uncomfortable
we had to we had to you know like really
understand what was going on and and
that was critical and important and then
the second thing is that we you know we
would we would love to see something
become a global currency I did it
enables more access it allows us to
serve more people it allows us to move
much faster around the world and we we
we thought we were going to start with
how you can use it transactionally but
we noticed that people were treating it
more like an asset like a like a virtual
gold and we wanted to we want to just to
make that easy like just the simplest
way to buy and sell Bitcoin but we also
knew that it had to come with a lot of
education I had to come with constraint
because you know two years ago people
did some really unhealthy things about
you know purchasing pickle and they
maxed out their credit cards and put all
their life savings and in the Bitcoin so
we we developed some very simple
restrictions and constraints like you
can all you can't buy Bitcoin on the
cash out with a credit card you have to
it has to be the money you actually have
in it and we look for a day trading
which we we discourage and shut down
like that that's not what we were trying
to build that's not what we were trying
to optimize for we made a children's
book explaining what bitcoin is and
where it came from and how people use it
and where it might be going so we we
really tried to take on the role of
Education and and and to have some like
very simple healthy constraints that
allowed to be allowed people to consider
what their actions are and in this
now when you have something like the
cash out which is it's very much a
disruptive technology in terms of like
decentralization of of banks and and
currency and you know to have it where
everything is going right at your direct
depositing a paycheck right in the app
if you so choose and then you could also
buy Bitcoin which is another disruptive
technology I mean that this is another
step towards this sort of new way of
doing things no
and is there pushback from from any
companies or is there oh yeah you know I
mean like you just look at like some of
the major banks and their consideration
around Bitcoin they all love blockchain
because of the efficiencies it can
create for their business and
potentially new business lines but you
know I think there is a explain block to
defeat before people don't know where
the black black chain is a distributed
ledger and it what that means is that
it's basically a distributed database
where you know the the source of truth
can be verified at any point around the
network and you can see you know this
this annotation around how content or
how round money like traveled so you
don't have to go to an institution so
the records yeah there's no centralized
check there's no centralized control
over it and I think that is threatening
it's it's it's certainly threatening to
certain services behind banks and
financial institutions it's threatening
to some governments as well so I just
look at this and like how do we embrace
this technology not react to it and I
you know more from a threat standpoint
but like what does it enable us to do
and where does our value shift and
that's what we should be talking about
right now is like how our value shifts
and there's always really strong answers
to that question but if you're not
willing to ask the question the first
place
you will become irrelevant because
technology will just continue to march
on and make you irrelevant and it's the
people that like are you know growing up
with this technology or born with the
technology only knowing that technology
or are asking the tough questions of
themselves that are going to be super
disruptive to their business and their
their thing
right now and there and they're taking
actions and you know we're doing we're
doing that square and we're doing that
at Twitter and like that to me
represents longevity that represents our
ability to thrive and we we got to push
ourselves we're gonna make ourselves
uncomfortable and we got it disrupt what
we held sacred and and what you know we
think is success today otherwise it's
not can be bigger than what we have
today yeah I couldn't agree more and I
think that cryptocurrency to me
represents one of the more interesting
discussions on the Internet what is
money and why are we agreeing that it's
these pieces of paper that the Federal
Reserve prints out totally it's it's a
fascinating time in technology because
like that that to me was one of the one
of the last big centralized national
eyes instruments is is a currency is
money and when you think about the
Internet as as a country as a market as
a nation it's going to have its own
currency and but what's interesting
about the internet as a nation it's the
whole world it is the whole world so the
world gets one currency it gets which
gets one thing they communicate in and
that to me is just so freeing and so
exciting yeah I I'm very excited by it
and I'm also very excited that the fact
that it's only been around for such a
short period of time but you know ten
years and it's become a part of the
global conversation yeah I just Brandt I
also think that it's going to open up
the door to potential universal
languages and I think this is this is
yeah yeah that excites me a lot about
Twitter is like how do we like it if we
want to get the world into a
conversation into it not a single
conversation but at least being able to
see that global conversation like we got
our work on technologies of like
instantly translate yeah I've got to
work on technologies that I can speak as
I'm speaking right now and in real time
people are hearing it in their context
in their language and their dialect that
is amazing that is so exciting yeah like
just how that evolves and how it how it
impacts not just communication like this
but music and just like you know how
up and rap and you know just it just it
it's it's amazing to think about where
that where that can go and where that
can take us yeah and I think you and I
are extremely fortunate to be alive
right now during this time because I
think it's one of the strangest and most
unique times in human history totally I
don't I don't think there's ever been a
time where things changed so radically
so quickly totally yeah and I feel you
know we um we're just we're able through
technologies like Twitter to at least
see and acknowledge some of the issues
that we're still facing or we're
probably in the dark before and I think
that's so critical to making any sort of
improvements for for making any sort of
evolution and and for making it better
for everyone on the planet and I you
know and I as as uncomfortable as as you
know sometimes Twitter makes people feel
I think it is necessary to to see those
things and have conversations about them
so that we can understand how we might
move forward and how we might really get
at the biggest problems facing us all
and you know that there's some huge ones
there's some huge ones right now that if
we don't have if we don't talk about it
like it will drive us to extinction and
like it will threaten our ability to to
be no planet to live on this planet I
agree thank you thanks for anything man
thanks for thank you thanks for doing
what you're doing thanks for having the
attitude that you have I really really
appreciate it thank you Jeff my pleasure
bye everybody
thank you
[Music]